There's a whole lot of people out there
that think stretching is completely
useless, which is mildly infuriating to
me cuz stretching obviously has effects
on the body. I benefit from this
indisputable truth, as you can see. But
if you don't need the effects of
stretching, then perhaps it really is
useless for you. But it's probably cuz
you don't actually know what stretching
can do for you. So, I'm going to cover
three different uses that you could use
stretching for. And the last one is
definitely my favorite. By the way, I
have free stretching ebooks if you
wanted to start your own routine.
Anyway, back to it. Whoa, that fall
could have been really bad if I just
slipped. Whoa, I didn't die. So, yes,
the first ability is the ability to not
tear your hamstring when you slip into a
split, which is achieved through some
style of stretching. So, yes, I do
believe stretching does reduce your
chance of having an injury, but not in
the way that people expect. Stretching
in a warm-up is mid. At best, it can
temporarily increase your range of
motion so that maybe you don't get
injured. But you most likely already
have all the range of motion you need
for whatever workout you're going to do.
And more range of motion isn't
necessarily going to stop an injury from
happening. However, chronic stretching
makes your range of motion way larger
and way more permanent. Sorry, my mic
broke. So, in the event that you get
forced into a position at a scary speed,
you won't get injured. By the way,
chronic stretching just means stretching
on a regular basis. Now, mind you,
stretching your hamstring is not going
to stop your collar bone from snapping
if you get a friendly hug from a
footballer at full speed. For this
reason, many people, scientific papers,
peer-reviewed journals, they say the
stretching does not reduce injury risk.
Yes. Because stretching your hamstring
doesn't make your collarbone invincible.
I really don't get it. The reason they
say that flowers is because lifting
weights, which is obviously another
discipline, actually does increase your
bone density, thereby making your collar
bone stronger and less susceptible to
breaking. But stretching still does
prevent some injury. Remember how
earlier I slipped into the splits?
I just slipped. Wo! Yeah, that's where
this comes into play here. Oh, and I can
back this up with data. That's right. I
brought receipts. These studies all show
that stretching can reduce
musculotendonous injuries. Muscular
tendonous just means that it refers to
the muscles and the tendons and the
ligaments, not necessarily the bone. So,
you can lower your chance of strains,
sprains, and tears by stretching. Like,
CHECK THIS OUT.
JUST KIDDING. But stuff like rolling
your ankle, tearing your hamstring,
straining your adductor, rolling your
ankle. Oh, yeah. I already said that
because it's dope. The bottom line is
this. Stretching won't strengthen your
bones. That's what lifting is for. So if
you want to be bulletproof, do both.
Number two, stretching increases your
pain tolerance. Basically, what happens
is you are subjecting your nervous
system to very uncomfortable positions
for a certain period of time. Your body
has a built-in reflex that prevents you
from going too far, and it's called your
stretch reflex. your muscles quite
literally flex without your ability to
turn it off and that prevents other
injuries. The point of stretching is
actually to get past that reflex for
short periods of time so that your body
gets the hint to get stretchier and then
your body adapts. By the way, it adapts
in three ways. Adaptation number one,
your body starts to fight your stretch a
little bit less and it starts to relax.
But this is only an acute effect,
meaning that it lasts during the stretch
or maybe for a little bit after, but in
a while it goes away because it's not
permanent. In fact, your butt will go
right back to how stiff it was before
you were stretching within an hour or
two. Adaptation number two, you get
longitudinal hypertrophy, which means
your muscles actually start to grow
lengthwise and not just widthwise. So,
let's brush up on anatomy. Basically,
your hunk of muscle is made up of these
cords called facasacless. These
facasicles are made out of wires called
muscle fibers. And those muscle fibers
are made of these little string things
called myofibbrals. And those strings
are made out of cells called sarcimeir.
I know that was a lot, but basically
that means if you chronically stretch or
you make a habit out of stretching, you
basically get more sarcimeirs in a line
than you would have otherwise. For
typical bodybuilding style exercises,
instead of getting more in a line, you
get more in a row, which is why the
muscle gets bigger and not longer. Yeah,
get it. And the third adaptation is your
body just feels less pain which makes
sense because stretching for a long time
is actually quite painful and your body
is like let's just feel less of that.
And the last point I'll say about this
on why stretching is not useless is in
my opinion the splits looks really dope.
But not only does it look cool, it's a
testament to the years of pain and
effort that you put in to get to that
skill. For a bodybuilder, they get
people saying, "You're taking steroids."
Whether they have or they haven't. And
for somebody like me, there's inevitably
going to be somebody in the comments
saying, "You're just naturally
flexible." But they don't see the amount
of effort that I've put in to make this
actually happen. Recap. Stretching isn't
useless for three reasons. Whoa. It
prevents strain, sprains, and tears,
otherwise known as muscular tendonous
injury. Two, stretching increases your
pain tolerance. Now I only cry on the
inside when I get hurt. And three,
stretching grows your muscles
lengthwise. And besides, the splits
looks pretty dope. Stay flexy.
Stretching isn't useless for three
reasons. Whoa.